Let's create our first table.
So, like I said, we're gonna be doing
a message board today with Postgres.
I kind of tried to choose like a good
problem for each one of these.
So they're not exactly they
gonna be the same problem.
Whereas like a pet adoption app,
is good for Mongo, something that's more
relational like a message board is
really good for a relational database.
So we're gonna say create table.
Now something I'm gonna tell you upfront.
It's optional to
capitalize all this stuff.
So you can totally say
create table like this.
It'll get it for your benefits.
And in general people tend
to capitalize the commands,
they can see the difference very quickly
between what they're imputing and
what is like a official SQL kind of thing.
If you're feeling lazy like I often do
when I'm writing SQL, feel free to just
put everything in lowercase just know
that that's why I'm capitalizing.
It's hopefully for your benefit.
So CREATE TABLE users, Open parentheses.
We're gonna create a table here.
And we're gonna have a user id.
This is gonna be,
you can put this as INT or integer, and
we'll put into Gerges for this one.
We're gonna make this a primary key.
So primary key means like
this is the thing that
the database is primarily
going to indexes on so
MongoDB had an underscore id,
this is that but for this.
And then we're gonna have
generated always as identity.
This is going to be
an arrow incrementing id.
So the first record that we're going
to insert into this database, or
table rather, is gonna have id one,
then we'll have id2, then id3, then id4.
And it will keep track of that for us.
We don't have to keep track of it.
That's what this generated always as
identity means that's what it's for.
In previous versions of Postgres,
this was called a serial.
If you're familiar with Postgres,
you might have seen that before.
It's not exactly the same thing but
it's really close.
The reason why they switched to
generated always as identity.
This is actually part of
the official SQL spec.
So there is a an SQL spec that all of
these SQL Server, and Postgres, and
MySQL share, and for the most part,
they're relatively compatible.
But serial was a Postgres thing, and so
they wanted to come back to
the the official SQL way of doing it.
And so that's why they came into
generated always as identity.
So for example, I think this create tables
statement that we're about to issue,
I think it would work as is with MySQL,
for example.
Not all of them will,
but some of them will.
User id, okay,
then we're gonna have a user name.
We have to tell what kind of thing it is.
Whereas this was an integer, right,
which is gonna be a number 1234, right?
The username we want it to be
a string of characters, right?
So in SQL, you call that a VARCHAR or
a variable amount of characters,
or a string.
So this varchar we're
gonna give it a length,
we're gonna say usernames can only
be 25 long, that's what this means.
It's going to be unique, so
no two people can have the same username,
I think that makes sense.
And we're gonna say this is never null,
which means if you're going to insert
into this database, you must include a
username, or I will not accept this query.
Okay, same thing with email, varchar.
We'll make this 50 I don't know if
that's a good length for emails.
It's probably too short but
that's what we're doing for now.
Unique, not null.
Okay, full name for
Varchar 100 not null.
I don't know if full name 100
that's probably not long enough
either like the king of Thailand
couldn't put his name in there.
If you've never looked at the king
of Thailand name look at it a lot.
[LAUGH] last login we'll
make this a timestamp.
So what we're gonna do here is
every time that the user logs in,
we're going to log that they've
logged in with this last login.
And this is useful for if someone
doesn't log in for like six months,
you can just say, all right,
clear out all of the people that
have been logged in six months.
This one can be null, right?
So if someone creates an account and
never logs in, this could be null, right?
So we're not gonna put NOT NULL.
And then we're gonna do a created_on,
of when they created this account.
This would be a timestamp.
That's not null.
Okay.
And there you go.
We now have created a table.
If we put slash D you can see here,
we have a user's table as
this first one represents.
And then the second one, it creates this
little sequence type that it uses that to
keep track of where we are in
that auto incrementing id.
So all of those auto incrementing id's
will have their own little sequence in
this list of relations thing.
So something you can do
instead of using a bar chart,
you can use something called text,
which is a different kind of data type.
That basically says that we're
not putting an upper limit on it.
It can be like 65,000 characters ish.
I think 65,000 is the right one.
But with varchar we can just
say like there's a hard cap
at this that we don't want people
to have 65,000 character emails.
There's a lot of types of Postgres data.
There, I dropped the link there into the
course notes of all the various different
kinds of data types for Postgres.
Feel free to check that out if you're
interested in seeing what other types
are available.
Or there will be probably
a course done on that as well.
All right, so now we have a table.
Tables empty, so let's go ahead and
insert something into that table.
So next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna do insert into this is
going to allow us to do
an insert into the database.
So we're going to insert into users.
That's the name of our table.
And we're going to insert a username.
So we have to actually type out
the name like of the columns or
the fields that we're gonna be putting in.
Email, full name and created_on like that,
and then we're going to say values.
And this is gonna go in that same order.
So the username we're gonna
say is btholt By the way,
you must use single quotes here do
not use double quotes in SQL or
SQL you have to use single quotes.
Some emails lol@example.com,
name is Brian Holt and
then this is gonna be the created on and
so we wanna created on to be right now,
right cuz I'm creating
my account right now.
So I'm gonna say now like that that's
a function built into Postgres.
That's gonna give me
the current timestamp back.
Okay, I'm gonna close this parentheses
right here, put a semicolon at the end.
And you can see here I have an insert 01.
This one represents that I successfully
inserted something into my database.
The 0 represents the oid.
Which we're not covering nor
using throughout the span of this course.
So no worries about it just ,yeah.
It's not something we're going to cover.
It's not important.
All right.
So now we've inserted something
into our database that is like at
the base level of how you
insert things into SQL.
This language here this
CREATE TABLE this insert into.
This is what SQL looks like it
almost reads like English sometimes.
So, which is nice.
I like SQL for
that reason ends up being fairly readable.
So now I wanna get it out I
wanna read from the database.
How would I do that?
Well, the most basic easy way
to do that is to say select
star which is gonna mean everything right
select everything from users like that.
And you can see here, this will read back
everything that I inserted into users.
So select is basically saying get this
stuff out of the database stars keep
saying, I don't wanna do any projection,
right?
This is where you would
do the projection part.
We talked about that in MongoDB.
If I wanted to do that, I would just say
select username, and maybe full name.
Like that and
this would only select username and
full name it would leave
everything else behind.
So the star is a wild card means
select everything from it.
And use just say from
which table from users.
Notice here on last login,
it's null, right?
Cuz we didn't provide it.
So it just says, okay,
you didn't give it to me.
That's gotta be null.
So this user, btholt,
has never logged into our system.
So it's good question here.
Is there a default length or do we always
have to specify length for each field?
With varchar, you do have to
specify how long the string is, or
how long the string could potentially be.
Again, use that textfield.
That's kind of how you're saying I give
up there's no upper bounds on this.
use as much space is necessary.
There's some other subtle
differences between varchar and
text that probably outside
the scope of this class,
but it has to do with like
how much inquiry from them